1
The Low-Rise Ordinance amending Sections 12.03 and 12.22 A.38 of Article 2,
Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to locally implement Senate Bill 79, “The
Abundant and Affordable Homes Near Transit Act" and update the Mixed Income
Incentive Program.
WHEREAS, the City proposes enactment of the Low-Rise Ordinance (Council
File No. 25-1083-S3) and the Phased Implementation Ordinance (Council File No. 25-
1083-S4) to facilitate compliance with SB 79, and does so without prejudice to, and
shall not be construed as a waiver of the City’s ability to file a protest or pursue other
rights, remedies, and legal proceeding to challenge SB 79;
WHEREAS, SB 79 affords local jurisdictions the ability to select among several
compliance approaches, and the City’s phased implementation approach to SB 79,
described in the Phased Implementation Ordinance (Council File No. 25-1083-S4) and
this instant Low-Rise Ordinance, is intended to ensure that the City’s local
implementation of state law does not conflict with the City’s existing, local land use
priorities, housing policies, City initiatives, and environmental concerns;
WHEREAS, in the absence of this Low-Rise Ordinance, state law would
automatically permit SB 79 incentives on qualifying sites per Government Code Section
65192.157, undermining the City’s existing housing policies and ordinances that
affirmatively further fair housing and promote sustainability strategies within a localized
context;
WHEREAS, Senate Bill 79 (SB 79), codified at Government Code, Title 7,
Division 1, Chapter 4.1.5, specifically Government Code Sections 65912.155 through
65912.162 and also known as “The Abundant and Affordable Homes Near Transit Act,”
was signed into law in October 2025 with the stated purpose of addressing California’s
housing crisis with incentives intended to permit additional density and development
capacity in excess of local zoning regulations by increasing the capacity for housing
within one-half mile of certain specified transit-oriented development stops referred to
as transit-oriented development zones (TOD Zones);
WHEREAS, the City’s adopted 2021-2029 Housing Element, the Citywide
Housing Incentive Program (CHIP), and the Housing Element Rezoning Program
(Council File Nos. 21-1230, 21-1230-S1,21-0934, 22-0617, 21-1230-S5, 21-1230-S6,
and 21-1230-S8) are built upon years of public feedback from thousands of Angelenos,
incorporate locally calibrated value capture tools, provide an abundance of incentive
schemes for various housing typologies, and affirmatively further fair housing, as
defined in California Government Code Section 8899.50, by facilitating the development
of housing near strong infrastructure in Higher Opportunity Areas as defined by the
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee (CTCAC);
ORDINANCE NO. 188967

WHEREAS, expanding access to the City’s MI IP, this ordinance in partnership
with the Phased Implementation Ordinance protects sensitive sites as permitted by
Government Code Section 65192.161(b), as well as Lower Opportunity Areas
vulnerable to displacement that have suffered historic zoning injustice, those Very High
Fire Hazard Severity Zones in Hillside Areas, and those industrial zones that provide
WHEREAS, this Low-Rise Ordinance offers incentives beyond what is required
by SB 79 in Government Code Section 65912.161(b)(1)(A), expands housing
opportunities beyond the requirements of state law, and strategically phases in the
capacity that will be required by “The Abundant and Affordable Homes Near Transit
Act;”
WHEREAS, this ordinance, as required by City Charter Section 558, protects the
public peace, health, and safety, by (1) increasing development capacity through
building on the success of the CHIP incentive programs and the Housing Element
Rezoning Program that have jointly increased the City’s housing capacity by over half a
million units, and by (2) continuing to address the housing crisis in a way that
affirmatively furthers fair housing and advances sustainability objectives through the
extension of Low-Rise density incentives on issues such as bonus density, parking,
floor area ratio, and height, in a manner that facilitates missing middle housing
typologies on low density and single family sites in TOD Zones that are primarily in
Higher and Moderate Opportunity Areas (Opportunity Stations); and
WHEREAS, proposed amendments to the MIIP will further facilitate the
construction of diverse housing typologies for various income levels, allow flexibility to
streamline the production of housing, and concentrate development density in areas
with adequate ingress and egress outside of fire-prone hillsides;
WHEREAS, the Low-Rise Ordinance’s proposed expansion of housing
incentives in Opportunity Station Areas through the Mixed Income Incentive Program
(MIIP), that was created by CHIP and the Housing Element Rezoning Program, is
consistent with the 2021-2029 Housing Element, including its goals, objectives, policies,
and programs such as Programs 103 (Missing Middle), 121 (RHNA Re-zoning), and
124 (Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing);
WHEREAS, the Low-Rise Ordinance supports the Citywide phased
implementation of SB 79, by adding residential capacity so the remaining ten percent of
sites in the City’s TOD Zones will comply with the requirements of SB 79 in California
Government Code Section 65912.161(b) and further the City’s efforts to create tailored
local transit-oriented development alternative plans;
WHEREAS, eligibility for the Low-Rise Ordinance is contingent on the availability
of a final TOD Zone map that has not yet been produced and approved by the Southern
California Association of Governments (SCAG), pursuant to California Government
Code Section 65912.160(f), and in the absence of that map eligibility will be determined
based on currently available information and data from SCAG;
2

3
jobs to Angelenos but pose severe health risks when developed for residential uses
without proper remediation and environmental review.
HIGHER OPPORTUNITY AREA. An area designated as the highest resource or
high resource on the most recently adopted version of the opportunity area maps
published by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee (TCAC) and
California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD).
MODERATE OPPORTUNITY AREA. An area designated as moderate resource
on the most recently adopted version of the opportunity area maps published by
the CTCAC and the HCD.
LOWER OPPORTUNITY AREA. An area designated as low resource on the
most recently adopted version of the opportunity area maps published by the
CTCAC and the HCD.
Sec. 3. Section 12.22 A.38 of Article 2, Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code is amended by replacing the terms “Opportunity Corridor Transition Area
Incentive” or “Opportunity Corridor Transition Incentive Area” with “Low-Rise Incentive
Area.”
Sec. 2. The following definition is amended in Section 12.03 of Article 2, Chapter
I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to read as follows:
Section 1. The following definitions are added in alphabetical order to Section
12.03 of Article 2, Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to read as follows:
THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
Sec. 4. Paragraph (a) of Subdivision 38 of Subsection A of Section 12.22 of
Article 2, Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
(a) Purpose. The purpose of this subdivision is to establish
specific Incentives and procedures for the implementation of State Density
Bonus requirements, as set forth in California Government Code Sections
65915 through - 65918, and to increase the production of affordable
housing near transit, in Higher Opportunity Areas, and on major corridors,
and to ensure consistency with the Abundant and Affordable Homes Near
Transit Act (Senate Bill 79) (California Government Code Sections
65912.155, et. seq.). In conjunction with the Incentives granted by state
law, this subdivision shall offer Incentives through the paragraphs of this
subdivision, and Waivers as defined in Section 12.22 A.37. of this Code,
for the purposes of increasing the feasibility of housing construction.
NOW THEREFORE,

Low-Rise Incentive Area Project. A project on a site located, in whole or
in part, within a Low-Rise Incentive Area as set forth in the eligibility map
pursuant to Section 12.22.A.38(i)(7) of this this Code, or determined to be eligible
pursuant to Section 12.22 A.38(c)(10) of this Code, that involves the construction
of, addition to, or remodeling of any building or buildings that result in the
creation of five or more residential units.
Tier 2 Transit-Oriented Development Stop (Tier 2 TOD Stop). A Tier 2
transit-oriented development stop as defined in California Government Code
Sections 65912.156(o) and 65912.156(p), as may be amended, and identified as
eligible for Abundant and Affordable Homes Near Transit Act (2025)
implementation by the Southern California Association of Governments,
consistent with California Government Code Section 65912.160(f).
Sec. 5. The definition of “Opportunity Corridor Transition Area Incentive Project”
is deleted and the following definitions are added in alphabetical order to Paragraph (b)
of Subdivision 38 of Subsection A of Section 12.22 of Article 2, Chapter I of the LAMC
to read as follows:
Tier 1 Transit-Oriented Development Stop (Tier 1 TOD Stop). A Tier 1
transit-oriented development stop, as defined in California Government Code
Sections 65912.156(n) and 65912.156(p), and identified as eligible for Abundant
and Affordable Homes Near Transit Act (2025) implementation by the Southern
California Association of Governments, consistent with California Government
Code Section 65912.160(f). Where a Tier 1 TOD Stop intersects or is co-located
with a Tier 2 TOD Stop, the stop shall be considered a Tier 1 TOD Stop.
Opportunity Station Area. A one-half mile radius surrounding a Tier 1
transit-oriented development stop (Tier 1 TOD Stop) or Tier 2 transit-oriented
development stop (Tier 2 TOD Stop), as defined in Government Code Section
65912.156, with a land area that is more than 50 percent designated as a
Moderate Opportunity Area or Higher Opportunity Area, alone or combined,
pursuant to the City’s five-year California Tax Credit Allocation
Committee (TCAC) Opportunity Areas map, as may be amended.
Fire Restriction Area. An area of land, in whole or part, that is located in
both a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone and a Hillside Area, as these terms
are defined in Section 12.03 of this Code.
4

1 unit1 unit
5
Footnotes
1. If a project using LR-1 or LR-2 incentives consolidates lots, the project shall provide the same
affordability as required per individual lot only if the project seeks the additional density granted per 12.22
A.38.(g)(3)(vi) of this Code.
Footnote
1. See Section 12.22 A.26.(h)(1) of this Code for additional requirements associated with a Type I Unified
Adaptive Reuse Project.
Table 12.22 A.38.(c)(1)(i)
Eligible Project Types and Total Units Required
2. At minimum, a project in LR-1 shall provide 1 Moderate Income Unit for every 10 units proposed and a
project in LR-2 shall provide either 1 Very Low Income unit, 1 Low Income unit, or 2 Moderate Income
units for every 16 units proposed.
Low-Rise
Incentive Area
Incentive Program
Table 12.22 A.38.(c)(3)(v)
Low-Rise Incentive Area Restricted Affordable Unit Requirements
Sec. 7. Table 12.22 A.38.(c)(3)(v) of Subdivision 38 of Subsection A of Section
12.22 of Article 2, Chapter I of the LAMC is amended as follows:
Minimum Number of Total Units Provided as Restricted
Affordable Units 1,2
Sec. 8. Subparagraphs (4) through (8) are amended in their entirety
and Subparagraphs (9) and (10) are added in Paragraph (c) of Subdivision 38 of
Subsection A of Section 12.22 of Article 2, Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
to read as follows:
Sec. 6. Table 12.22 A.38.(c)(1)(i) of Subdivision 38 of Subsection A of Section
12.22 of Article 2, Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(4) The project site does not include any lots located in a
manufacturing zone that does not allow multiple family residential
uses (M1, M2,-M3, MR1, or MR2 Zone); or the CM zones where
1
ype I Unified Adaptive Reuse Project
Project Type
Transit Oriented Incentive Area Project
Opportunity Corridor Incentive Area Project
Low-Rise Incentive Area Project
LR-1
LR-2
Income Level
Lower Income
Minimum Total Units Required
Five or more
Five or more
Five or more
Five or more
Moderate Income
1 unit
2 units
Very Low Income

6
residential uses are not permitted by right by any applicable
planning overlay, “Q” condition, or “D” limitation.
(8) A project involving a Designated Historic Resource shall
be consistent with the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for
Rehabilitation, as supported by an expert study that has been
accepted by the Office of Historic Resources or demonstrated by
the project plans and accepted by the Office of Historic Resources,
if consistent with the applicable adopted Implementation
Memorandum, Guidelines or Technical Bulletins of the Director of
City Planning.
(9) A project shall not be located in the Boyle Heights
Community Plan, the Harbor Gateway Community Plan, the
(5) The project site does not include any lots located in a
single family or more restrictive zone (RW1 and more restrictive),
unless the project is a Low-Rise Incentive Area Project located
within an Opportunity Station Area.
(ii) Any Surveyed Historic Resource, eligible or
architectural historic resource identified for any historic
protection or special consideration or review by an
applicable overlay or Specific Plan including sites located in:
the South Los Angeles Community Plan Implementation
Overlay (CPIO) Section 1-6.C.5.b; the Southeast Los
Angeles CPIO Section 1-6.C.5.b; the West Adams CPIO
Ch.1, Section 6.C.5.b; the San Pedro CPIO Ch.1, Section
7.C.5.b; Westwood Village Specific Plan; Echo Park
Community Design Overlay (CDO) District; or the North
University Park Specific Plan.
(7) The project would not require the demolition of any of
the following, as demolition is defined in Section 13B.8.1.C of
Chapter 1A of this Code.
(6) The project site does not include any lots located
within a Fire Restriction Area, the Coastal Zone, or a Sea Level
Rise Area. Except that a project site that is located within a Fire
Restriction Area or the Coastal Zone shall be eligible if properties
that are abutting, across the street or alley, or have a common
corner with the subject property, are not in a Fire Restriction Area
or Coastal Zone, and are eligible for Incentives contained in this
subdivision.
(i) A Designated Historic Resource; or

]), is a site that is eligible for the Low-
(g) Low-Rise Incentive Area.
Eligibility Subarea Based on Distance
LR-1 LR-2
Opportunity Corridor < 250 feet RD and R2
Residential Zones1
7
Footnote
1. Sites in whole or in part within a Transportation Qualifier’s eligibility subarea are part of the eligibility
subarea indicated.
Wilmington-Harbor City Community Plan, and/or the Cornfield
Arroyo Seco Specific Plan.
Transportation
Qualifier1
Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(1)(i)
Low-Rise Incentive Area Subareas
Rise Incentive Area Program if the project sets aside the amount of
required restricted affordable units consistent with Government
Code Section 65912.157(i) and Table 22.22.A.38.(c)(3)(v),
whichever is greater.
Eligible
Underlying
Project Zones
Opportunity
Station Areas
(1) Eligibility. A project may seek Base Incentives by
satisfying the eligibility criteria provided in Paragraph (c), and the
below criteria for Low-Rise Incentive Area subareas, described in
Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(1)(i), below.
(10) Exceptions. Notwithstanding the eligibility criteria
listed in Subparagraphs (4), (5), (6) and (9) of this paragraph, a site
that meets the eligibility requirements of Government Code Section
65912.157, and either does not meet any of the site or station level
criteria specified in Government Code Section 65912.161(b), or is
not exempt from Government Code Sections 65912.155 through
65912.162 pursuant to the Phased Implementation Ordinance
(ii) Property Line Measurement. Measurements from
an Opportunity Corridor to determine an eligibility subarea should
be based on the distance from the Rear Lot Line of the lot located
Sec. 9. Paragraph (g) of Subdivision 38 of Subsection A of Section 12.22 of
Article 2, Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
Geographic
Criteria
Higher
Opportunity
Areas
Tier 2 TOD Stop
Tier 1 TOD Stop
<1/4 mile
< 1/2 mile
250 - 750 feet
1/4 mile -1/2
mile
(Ordinance No. f

8
within an Opportunity Corridor Incentive Area. Where a lot is a
Reversed Corner Lot, distance shall be measured from the lot’s
property line parallel to the Opportunity Corridor. In the case that
lots are abutting or are consolidated, the buffer measurement will
not be adjusted to accommodate the new Rear Lot Line of the
consolidated site. In the case that lots are abutting or are
consolidated, the buffer measurement will not be adjusted to
accommodate the new Rear Lot Line of the consolidated site.
(2) A Low-Rise Incentive Area Project is not eligible to
request a Waiver, request Additional Incentives described in
Paragraph (h) of this subdivision, request Public Benefit Options
described in Paragraph (i) of this subdivision, or combine requests
for Incentives either on or off any other Incentive menu. However,
a project may request to use the Base Incentives from a lower
eligibility subarea.
a. A site with a Designated Historic Resource,
or Non-Contributor is not eligible for LR-2 Incentives,
and is limited to LR-1 Incentives; furthermore, in Tier
1 or Tier 2 TOD Stop eligibility subareas, a parcel
located within a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone,
as prescribed in Division 13B.8. of Chapter 1A of this
Code, or designated as a Historic Cultural Monument,
in accordance with Section 22.171 of Article 1,
Chapter 9, Division 22 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code, shall not be eligible for
incentives in this paragraph, unless it is also located
within an eligibility subarea based on distance from an
Opportunity Corridor Transition eligibility subarea
based on distance from an Opportunity Corridor.
b. A project that meets the eligibility
requirements of Government Code Section
65912.157, and either is on a site that does not meet
any of the site or station-level criteria specified in
Government Code Section 65912.161(b)(1), or is not
exempted from Government Code Sections
65912.155 through 65912.162. pursuant to the
Phased Implementation Ordinance (Ordinance No.
[__________ ], is a project that is eligible for the base
incentives in Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(3)(i) regardless of
the site's underlying zoning or Opportunity Station
Area status.
(iii) Exceptions.

Description
2 stories4LR-1 5 units 1.30:1
6 units 1.45:1
3 stories47 units 1.60:1
9
Eligibility
Subarea
Density
Bonus
In each
subarea, the
maximum
Density
including
bonus shall be
as follows:
Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(3)(i)
Low-Rise Incentive Area Base Incentives
(3) Base Incentives. A project shall be granted Base
Incentives established in this paragraph, as defined in Table 12.22
A.38.(g)(3)(i) below, in exchange for the required minimum number
of Restricted Affordable Units established in Paragraph (c)(3) of this
subdivision for the Low-Rise Incentive Area. The Base Incentives
in Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(3)(i) are expressed as project site
maximums and are in lieu of, not in addition to, a site’s underlying
Development Standards. The Base Incentives also supersede any
massing requirements for the building envelope that are otherwise
applicable including but not limited to Section 12.08 C.5 of this
Code, any side yard plane break requirements including but not
limited to Section 12.08 C.2 of this Code, or any Development
Standard that precludes the guaranteed building envelope
Incentives granted by this subparagraph. The maximum density
corresponds to a maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) and height in
the table cell to the immediate right, and may not be mixed with
greater FAR and height maximums unless utilizing the Base
Incentive in Sub-subparagraph (iv) (Multi-Bedroom Units).
However, nothing in Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(3)(i) is intended to
prevent a project from voluntarily providing parking or using a lower
maximum density, height, or FAR.
Height
(maximum
permitted)
In each subarea,
the maximum
allowable height
permitted shall
be as follows:3
Required
automobile parking
for all residential
units in a project
(not just the
restricted affordable
units), inclusive of
disabled and
required guest
parking, where
applicable, shall be
as follows:112
No parking required.
Floor Area Ratio
(maximum
permitted)
For each subarea,
the maximum FAR
shall be equal to
the following:
Parking

1.75:1
9 units 1.90:1
10 units 2.0:1
11 units 2.15:1
LR-2 12 units 2.30:1
13 units 2.45:1
14 units 2.60:1
15 units 2.75:1
16 units 2.90:1
10
4. The maximum permitted height for the LR-1 Eligibility Subarea is two stories for projects of 5 to 6 units,
and three stories for projects of 7 to 16 units.
2. Consistent with California Government Code Section 65915(p)(4), required parking spaces provided
may be uncovered.
3. Notwithstanding Section 12.21.1 of this Code, for a project where a rooftop deck is provided, roof
structures for an elevator or stairway may exceed the building height by up to 17 feet, provided the
proposed roof structure is set back from the roof perimeter by 5 feet, or as specified in the Vertical
Circulation encroachment allowances in Section 2C.4.2.E.1 of Chapter 1A of this Code in accordance
with the project’s built height (in lieu of the Form District).
Footnotes:
1. Pursuant to California Civil Code Section 1947.1, provided parking shall be sold or rented separately
from the units in properties with 16 or more units, as verified by the Los Angeles Housing Department.
a. Exceptions. Notwithstanding Table 12.22
A.38.(g)(3)(i) above, a site in the Low-Rise Incentive
Area is eligible for up to half the amount of units and
floor area otherwise permitted by California
Government Code Section 65912.157(a).
Furthermore, projects located within 200 feet of a Tier
1 or Tier 2 TOD Stop that cannot accommodate half
the amount of units and floor area otherwise permitted
by California Government Code Section 65912.157(a)
shall be eligible for an additional story in height
8 units

d. Rear yard setback of eight feet.
e. Alley setback of zero feet.
11
beyond the heights specified in Table 12.22
A.38.(g)(3)(i) above.
a. Front yard setbacks are limited to no more
than the average of the yards along the same
frontage of adjacent buildings along the same street
frontage or 15 feet, whichever is less. Or, if a site is a
corner lot or adjacent to a vacant lot, the front yard
setback may align with the facade of an adjacent
building along the same front lot line. Notwithstanding
Section 12.22 C.20.(d) of this Code, balconies may
extend into the required front yard up to five feet.
c. Minimum Lot Access: A three-foot
pedestrian access easement may be provided in lieu
of vehicular access requirements.
(ii) Lot Requirements. A project is eligible for a
reduction of an otherwise required Lot standard as part of a
subdivision as follows:
a. Minimum Lot Area: 600 square feet
c. No interior side yard setback shall be
required for buildings that are part of the same
development.
b. Side yard setback of four feet for a three-
story or higher structure, or three feet for a two-story
or one-story structure.
(iii) Yards. A project is eligible for a reduction of an
otherwise required Yard standard to the following minimums:
(iv) Multi-Bedroom Units. A project that includes a
minimum 20% of Total Units as three-bedrooms or larger,
shall be granted additional Floor Area up to 0.5 FAR and an
additional story over the entire development site, regardless
of the number of underlying height limits including
transitional height or step back requirements. This requires
that the applicant provide the City with a covenant in favor of
b. Minimum Lot Width: 15 feet

(v) Building Spacing and Passageways. A project
does not need to meet zoning requirements related to
spaces between buildings or passageways pursuant to
Section 12.21 C.2 of this Code.
the City that is recorded in the development site’s chain of
title to guarantee that the qualifying multi-bedroom units will
maintain the same bedroom count and will not be converted
to additional residential units in the future.
a. For example, if two LR-1 lots are
consolidated into one project, the project is eligible for
up to 20 units, with 2 Moderate Income units set aside
as Restricted Affordable Units, a 2:1 FAR maximum
and a height maximum of 2 or 3 stories; or if two LR-2
lots are consolidated in one project, the project is
eligible for up to 32 units, with 4 Moderate Income
units set aside as Restricted Affordable Units, a 2.9:1
FAR maximum and a height maximum of 3 stories.
b. If a project consolidates two lots of differing
incentive areas, for example LR-1 and LR-2, the
incentives of the more intense incentive area shall be
permitted on both lots.
(vi) Consolidated Development. In the case that a
Low-Rise Incentive Area Project consolidates multiple lots,
the Density Bonuses established in Table 12.22
A.38.(g)(3)(i) shall be available to each lot provided the
project satisfies the affordability criteria of Section 12.22
A.38.(c)(3)(v) of this Code. However, FAR and height
bonuses shall not exceed the maximum permitted in Table
12.22 A.38.(g)(3)(i) or Section 12.22 A.38.(g)(3)(iv) of this
Code.
(viii) Lot Coverage and Lot Utilization. A project
does not need to meet zoning requirements or development
standards related to lot coverage or lot utilization.
(vii) Calculating Floor Area Ratio. In lieu of the
calculation of Buildable Area or Residential Floor Area as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, Floor Area Ratio or
FAR shall be defined as the measurement of the total floor
area of all buildings on a lot in relation to the size of the lot,
inclusive of yards and setbacks.
12

a. Minimum Planting Area. Common
Outdoor Open Space options provided to comply with
open space standards shall comply with the
provisions of Section 12.21 G.2.(a)(3) of this Code
regarding minimum planting area, except that
Common Outdoor Open Space provided on a Rooftop
and Intermediate Roof Levels, as specified in Table
12.22 A.38.(g)(4)(ii), shall meet the minimum planting
area requirements by landscaping a minimum of 15
percent of the Rooftop Common Outdoor Open Space
area with live planting material, and meeting the tree
requirements in Section 12.21 G.2.(a)(3).
(i) Common Outdoor Open Space Standards. A
project shall provide at-grade or rooftop Common Outdoor
Open Space per Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(4)(ii) that is accessible
to all the residential tenants of a project. The Common
Outdoor Open Space shall be open to the sky and have no
structures that project into the area, except for Outdoor
Amenity Areas as described in Section 12.03 of this Code,
and except for Projections into Yards as provided in Section
12.22 C.20.(b) of this Code. Furthermore, projects pursuing
subdivisions pursuant to Section 12.22 C.27 may provide
Rooftop and Intermediate Roof Levels as private open space
to meet this Common Outdoor Open Space Standard
requirement. This common open space requirement shall
supersede the per residential unit calculation of common
open space in Section 12.21 G.2. of this Code. In lieu of the
provisions of Section 12.21 G.2. of this Code, a project must
meet at least one Common Outdoor Open Space typology
from the menu listed in Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(4)(ii) below
(4) Performance Standards. A project approved pursuant
to this subdivision shall meet the following Performance Standards,
and no deviations from these standards shall be granted, except
that any project resulting from the conversion of, or an addition up
to a maximum of 1,200 square feet to, an existing structure need
not comply with these standards.
13

Paseo
14
Paseo depth (minimum): 60%
of the lot depth.
Size and Dimension
Requirements (minimum)
Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(4)(ii)
Common Outdoor Open Space Types Menu
Courtyard width (minimum):
30% of lot width or 15 feet,
whichever is greater.
Paseo width (minimum): 10%
of lot width or 10 feet wide,
whichever is greater.
Courtyard depth (minimum):
40% of lot depth (minimum).
Common
Outdoor
Open Space
Typologies:
Courtyard Placement of courtyard shall
comply with at least one of the
following standards:
1. The courtyard shall be oriented
so that it and an existing open
space courtyard on an adjoining
lot (unseparated by a street or
alley) work together to create
the effect of one large open
space.
2. The courtyard shall be
contiguous with the minimum
front yard setback creating a
single deep combined courtyard
that unites the minimum
courtyard and front yard spaces.
3. The courtyard shall be an
internal courtyard, entirely
contained onsite.___ ________
A Paseo shall be located between
residential structures, perpendicular
to and beginning at the front lot line.
A Paseo shall have a minimum four-
foot wide unobstructed pedestrian
pathway accessible from the Ground
Floor Frontage. A Paseo may be
covered by architectural projections,
but no structures or habitable space
shall encroach on the Paseo, and it
shall be for pedestrian use only. The
depth calculation may include the
pathway accessible from the front lot
line as part of the Paseo length,
provided the pathway is adjacent to
open space.____________________
Standards

Front or Rear
Yard
Front or Rear Yard width
(minimum): 50% of lot width.
Rooftop and
Intermediate
Roof Levels
Located adjacent to the front or rear
property lot line and open to the sky.
Rooftop and Intermediate Roof
Levels open space shall comply with
the following standards:
1. Rooftop open space on the
uppermost story shall only be
counted toward Common
Outdoor Open Space
Standards if a project is three
or more stories.
2. At least a three-foot setback
shall apply to any rooftop
perimeter edge that is within 10
feet or less from a neighboring
structure on adjacent property.
If the nearest adjacent structure
is ten feet or more from the
edge of the rooftop perimeter,
no setback shall be required.
3. Rooftop open space shall
comply with the vertical
encroachment limitations based
on a project’s built overall
height in feet (in lieu of the
Form District) as described in
Sec. 2C.4.2.E.1 of Chapter 1A,
except that a roof structure for
an elevator or stairway may
comply with Footnote 2 of
Table 12.22 A.38.(g)(3)(i).
a. Street-Facing Entrance. Each unit fronting
a public street (provided there is no structure located
between the lot line and unit) shall have an entrance
facing the public street, or a building fronting a public
street with no structure located between the lot line
and unit shall have a shared entrance for every 50
feet of frontage. All street-facing entrances to units
(iii) Entrances.
Front or Rear Yard depth
(minimum): 10% of lot depth, or
15 feet, whichever is greater.
10% of total lot area or 600
square feet, whichever is greater
15

Porch Forecourt
16
Recessed Entry
2. Forecourt. A yard screened with a
short wall, fence or hedge that provides
significant privacy for tenants located on the
ground story, near sidewalk grade. A forecourt
shall have a minimum depth of 8 feet, a
minimum width of 10 feet, required covered
entrance, and a fence or wall height between 2
feet and 6 inches, to 3 feet and 6 inches.
(iv) Ground Floor External Entrances. A ground
floor external entrance to units not located on a street
fronting lot line, shall have an entrance oriented towards the
open space when adjacent to the open space.
3. Recessed Entry. A space set
behind the building face plane providing
sheltered access to a street-facing entrance. A
recessed entry shall have a depth between 3 to
15 feet minimum, and a maximum width of 5
feet, and a required covered entrance.
and all street-facing primary entrances shall have one
of the following entry features:
1. Porch. A wide, raised platform,
projecting in front of a street-facing entrance,
that is entirely covered but not enclosed. A
porch shall have a minimum depth of 4-1/2
feet, a minimum of 30% of the building width,
and a finished floor elevation between 2 to 5
feet.
Figure 12.22 A.38(g)(4)(iii)a.4.

a. Location.
a. Maximum Allowable Residential Density;
b. Density Bonus units;
c. Number of Restricted Affordable Units;
d. Number of Replacement Housing Units;
e. Vehicular Parking; and
17
Sec. 10. Subparagraph (5) of Paragraph (j) of Subdivision 38 of Subsection A of
Section 12.22 of Article 2 of Chapter I of the LAMC is amended to read as follows:
f. Number of Multi-Bedroom Units provided
pursuant to Sections 12.22 A.38.(i)(2) and 12.22
A.38.(g)(3)(iv) of this Code.
2. A new detached garages or carport
shall be located behind the main building(s)
facade, furthest from the Ground Floor
Frontage Line.
3. An attached parking area shall be
located either underground (subterranean or
semi-subterranean) or behind any main
building.
4. An access driveway shall be provided
from an alley when present and determined
feasible by the City’s Department of
Transportation.
1. No above-ground parking areas
including parking structures and parking stalls,
shall be allowed between a Ground Floor
Frontage and public right-of-way.
(i) Units. For the purposes of this subdivision,
calculations for the following resulting in fractional numbers
shall be rounded up to the next whole number:
(5) Fractional Numbers.
(v) Parking Areas, Garages, and Carports.

c. The Director of Planning, or their designee,
may issue map updates, as needed, to address
technical corrections, additional guidance from the
California Department of Housing and Community
Development, or changes to implementation maps for
California Government Code Sections 65912.155
through 65912.162, as produced by the Southern
California Association of Governments.
Sec. 11. Subparagraph (7) of Paragraph (j) of Subdivision 38 of Subsection A of
Section 12.22 of Article 2, Chapter I of the LAMC is amended to read as follows:
b. Every five years beginning in 2026, in order
to align the City’s five-year TCAC Opportunity
eligibility maps associated with the housing incentive
programs of this subdivision to reflect updates to
resource areas as defined and identified by the
TCAC.
a. On an annual basis in order to align the
programs of this subdivision with updated zoning and
transit data, including-updates to the locations of
Major Transit Stops.
d. The Director of Planning, or their designee,
shall notify the City Council when updates to the Low-
Rise Incentive Area maps are published.
(ii) Opportunity Station Area Identification. For
purposes of determining the majority Opportunity Area (i.e.
Lower, Moderate, Higher) within an Opportunity Station
Area, consistent with the City's five-year TCAC Opportunity
Map Area, TCAC land area calculations shall include all land
within a one-half mile radius including land outside the City
of Los Angeles. Land designated as having "Insufficient
Data” shall be excluded from the area of the Opportunity
Station Area as part of Opportunity Station Area mapping
pursuant to Section 12.22 A.38.(j)(7)(i) of this Code.
(i) The Director shall have the authority to issue and
update eligibility maps of Transit Oriented Incentive Areas,
Opportunity Corridor Incentive Areas, Low Rise Incentive
Areas, City’s five-year TCAC Opportunity Areas, and
Opportunity Station Areas as specified herein:
(7) Update Frequency and Eligibility Mapping.
18

Sec. 14. A new Paragraph (m) is added to Subdivision 38 of Subsection A of
Section 12.22 of Article 2, Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to read as
follows:
(12) Rent Schedules and State Density Bonus
Affordability Threshold. Restricted Affordable Units required as
part of a project shall be sold or rented at rates that do not exceed
those specified in California Health and Safety Code 50052.5 for
for-sale units or California Health and Safety Code Section 50053
for rental units. Restricted Affordable Units associated with One
Hundred Percent Affordable Housing Projects shall comply with the
Restricted Affordable Unit requirements set forth in Section 12.22
A.39.(c) of this Code. All mixed income projects on sites with a
Maximum Allowable Residential Density of greater than five units
pursuing a program within this subdivision shall exceed at least one
affordability income category consistent with the minimum
affordability requirements of California Government Code Section
65915(f)(1), 65915(f)(2), or 65915(f)(4), reserving at least either 16
percent as Very Low Income (for rental), 25 percent Low Income
(for rental), or 45 percent Moderate Income (for sale) of the
project’s units (excluding units added by a Density Bonus),beyond
at the schedules and costs specified in California Health and Safety
Code 50052.5 for for-sale units or California Health and Safety
Code Section 50053 for rental units.
Sec. 13. A new Subparagraph (16) is added to Paragraph (j) of Subdivision 38 of
Subsection A of Section 12.22 of Article 2, Chapter I of the LAMC to read as follows:
Sec. 12. Subparagraph (12) of Paragraph (j) of Subdivision 38 of Subsection A
of Section 12.22 of Article 2 of Chapter I of the LAMC is amended to read as follows:
(m) Interpretations Consistent with Phased Implementation of
the Abundant and Affordable Homes Near Transit Act (SB 79). This
subdivision is intended to phase-in implementation and pause the
immediate application of the Abundant and Affordable Homes Near
Transit Act (2025) at California Government Code Sections 65912.155 to
65912.162, pursuant to Government Code Section 65912.161(b). If at any
time this subdivision becomes inconsistent with California Government
Code Section 65912.161(b), as determined by the Director of Planning,
the provisions of the Abundant and Affordable Homes Near Transit Act
shall apply.
(16) Residential Zones. For the purpose of determining
an eligible project’s Incentives, Residential Zones must permit
primarily residential uses as a main use by right and shall include
but not be limited to R5 and more restrictive R and A zones, as well
as R1P, R2P, R3P, R4P, and R5P zones.
19

Sec. 17. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance is found to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions of this ordinance, which can be implemented
without the invalid provisions and, to this end, the provisions of this ordinance are
declared to be severable. The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted
each and every provision and portion thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional,
without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently declared
invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 15. OPERATIVE DATE. This ordinance shall become operative at the
same time it becomes effective upon publication pursuant to Charter Section 253 in
advance of the July 1,2026 effective date of the Abundant and Affordable Homes Near
Transit Act set forth in Government Code Section 65912.157. If prior to the operative
date of this ordinance, the effect of Government Code Sections 65912.155 et seq, is
suspended or extended by the State of California, such as by an emergency order of
the Governor or legislative amendments by the California Legislature, the operative date
of this ordinance shall be the day before any new deadline set by the State.
Sec. 16. URGENCY CLAUSE. The City Council finds and declares that this
ordinance is required for the immediate protection of the public peace, health and
safety, and to affirm a pause in the application of SB 79 within the City by permanently
or temporarily exempting and protecting sensitive sites, including those in low-resource
neighborhoods as designated by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, Very
High Fire Hazard Severity Zones, and those sites hosting or adjacent to industrial uses.
The tailored approach to increased density near transit presented by this ordinance
avoids the one-size-fits-all approach to increased residential capacity mandated by
Government Code Section 65912.161(b)(1), which does not consider whether the
increased density is in healthy, lower resource, or hazardous areas; does not take into
account whether sites are within very high fire hazard severity zones or industrial areas;
does not consider whether areas are subject to displacement pressures; nor whether an
area has been subject to past zoning or environmental injustice. This ordinance makes
the City compliant with state mandated requirements, continues to address the City of
Los Angeles’ housing crisis, the City’s chosen planning and zoning policies, and
improves housing access under affirmatively furthering fair housing principles by using
the City’s own locally tailored value capture policies. For these reasons, this ordinance
shall become effective upon publication pursuant to Section 253 of the Los Angeles City
Charter when it is adopted by a minimum three-fourths vote of the City Council
20

HYDEE FELDSTEIN SOTO, City Attorney
File No. 25-1083-S3
"M:\Real Prop_Env_Land Use\Ordinances Active\Senate Bill 79\SB 79- Low-Rise Ordinance.docx"
CITY CLERK MAYOR
y— Kasa—(2-.—
VINCENT P. BERTONI, AICP
Director of Planning
The Clerk of the City of Los Angeles
hereby certifies that the foregoing
ordinance was passed by the Council of
the City of Los Angeles, by a vote of not
less than three-fourths of all its
members.
Pursuant to Charter Section 559, I
disapprove this ordinance on behalf
of the City Planning Commission and
recommend that it not be adopted.
Sec. 18. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage of this ordinance and have it
published in accordance with Council policy, either in a daily newspaper circulated in
the City of Los Angeles or by posting for ten days in three public places in the City of
Los Angeles: one copy on the bulletin board located at the Main Street entrance to the
Los Angeles City Hall; one copy on the bulletin board located at the Main Street
entrance to the Los Angeles City Hall East; and one copy on the bulletin board located
at the Temple Street entrance to the Los Angeles County Hall of Records.
Ordinance Passed June 23, 2026
Ordinance Published: 06/30/2026
Ordinance Effective Date: 06/30/2026
Date _Sw2 (,2Z9
06/26/2026
Approved____________
Date June 17, 2026
By____ Z. Luca._____ -p-
KIMBERLY HUANG FU
Deputy City Attorney
Approved as to Form and Legality
